yival_experiments/README.md, before:

# How to run experiment

## 1. install automation-api library

``` shell
cd /path/to/gapminder-ai/automation-api
poetry install
```

## 2. enable poetry shell

``` shell
poetry shell
```

## 3. copy .env and fetch questions

``` shell
cd ../yival_experiment/
cp ../automation-api/.env ./

python fetch_question.py
```

This will fetch all enabled questions in the AI eval spreadsheet and create data/questions.csv.

Note: I tried to create a custom data reader to read data from AI eval
spreadsheet directly, but then yival failed to run the experiment. I
checked and found that Yival requires a dataset to have a local
file when the source type is set to "dataset". So we need to fetch it first.

(Maybe, we can solve it by changing the source type to "machine generated")

## 4. run the experiment

The full experiment configuration is [here](https://github.com/Gapminder/gapminder-ai/blob/yival/yival_experiments/latest_experiment.yaml)

To run it:

``` shell
yival run --output ./output/experiment_name experiment_latest.yaml
# You can replace experiment_name with other names.
```

This will output a pickle file in `output/experiment_name_0.pkl` which include all Experiment Results objects.

When the experiment is completed, Yival will start a web server to show the results.

## 5. generate a result csv from output

To convert the pickle to excel file and create csv files for summary report, you can run the script in output/.

``` shell
cd output
python generate_result.py
```

This will generate `results.xlsx`, `result_comb_prompt.csv`, and `result_comb.csv` files in the output directory.

TODO: We can add a custom evaluator in Yival to calculate the final scores.

Commit message:

Add readme about Redis cache

yival_experiments/README.md, after:

# How to run experiment

## 1. install automation-api library

``` shell
cd /path/to/gapminder-ai/automation-api
poetry install
```

## 2. enable poetry shell

``` shell
poetry shell
```

## 3. copy .env and fetch questions

``` shell
cd ../yival_experiment/
cp ../automation-api/.env ./

python fetch_question.py
```

This will fetch all enabled questions in the AI eval spreadsheet and create data/questions.csv.

Note: I tried to create a custom data reader to read data from AI eval
spreadsheet directly, but then yival failed to run the experiment. I
checked and found that Yival requires a dataset to have a local
file when the source type is set to "dataset". So we need to fetch it first.

(Maybe, we can solve it by changing the source type to "machine generated")

## 4. run the experiment

The full experiment configuration is [here](https://github.com/Gapminder/gapminder-ai/blob/yival/yival_experiments/experiment_latest.yaml)

To run it:

``` shell
yival run --output ./output/experiment_name experiment_latest.yaml
# You can replace experiment_name with other names.
```

This will output a pickle file in `output/experiment_name_0.pkl` which include all Experiment Results objects.

When the experiment is completed, Yival will start a web server to show the results.

### Use Redis for caching

The model compare function will cache LLM call results for the
evaluator, and by default the cache is dictionary in memory. You can
also use Redis to caching, so that it won't loss the cache when Yival
exits. To do this, uncomment the line for redis cache in the top of
`custom_configuration/model_compare.py` and set the host and password
to your redis server.

## 5. generate a result csv from output

To convert the pickle to excel file and create csv files for summary report, you can run the script in output/.

``` shell
cd output
python generate_result.py
```

This will generate `results.xlsx`, `result_comb_prompt.csv`, and `result_comb.csv` files in the output directory.

TODO: We can add a custom evaluator in Yival to calculate the final scores.
